Changes to Roll and Host text and definitions (#89)
ietf-rats-wg/architecture: draft-ietf-rats-architecture.md

a remote peer (the "Relying Party") to decide whether to consider that
Attester a trustworthy peer or not.
RATS are facilitated by an additional vital party, the Verifier.

> The Verifier appraises Evidence via Appraisal Policies and creates

Reviewer: ```suggestion

The Verifier appraises Evidence via Appraisal Policies and creates
```

Attester a trustworthy peer or not.
RATS are facilitated by an additional vital party, the Verifier.

> 

Author: ```suggestion
The Verifier appraises Evidence via Appraisal Policies and creates
the Attestation Results to support Relying Parties in their decision
process.
```

The Verifier appraises Evidence via Appraisal Policies and creates
the Attestation Results to support Relying Parties in their decision

> process.

Reviewer: Why are these lines deleted?  Recommend keeping them.

Reviewer 2: If this was not redundant content, it seems to be vital to highlight that early on.

Common topological models and the data flows associated with them, such as
the "Passport Model" and the "Background-Check Model" are illustrated.

> The purpose is to enable readers to map their solution architecture to the
> canonical attestation architecture provided here and to define useful terminology for attestation.

Reviewer: could be misread as "The purpose is to enable readers to ... define useful terminology for attestation." which is not the intent.

```suggestion
The purpose is to define useful terminology for attestation and enable readers to map
their solution architecture to the canonical attestation architecture provided here.
```

Reviewer 2: If we are at it, I'd say "remote attestation" instead of "attestation". That nit aside, I think this reads better.

Having a common terminology that provides well-understood meanings for common themes

> such as, roles, device composition, topological models and appraisal is vital for

Reviewer: ```suggestion
such as roles, device composition, topological models, and appraisal is vital for
```

Attestation Result:

> : The output generated by a Verifier, typically including information about an Attester, where the Verifier vouches for the validity of the Evidence it has appraised

Reviewer: I'm not sure the change is technically correct.  The verifier vouches for the level of trustworthiness of the attester, and it vouches for the results it signs.  But it could (for example) ignore extra claims in the evidence (e.g., GPS location) that it cannot vouch for, and provide only vouched-for claims in the results.  Hence it need not vouch for the validity of the entire evidence.   I recommend reverting.

Reviewer 2: I agree with Dave here. And I even think that we should word-smith a proposed change out of this comment and be more verbose here (yes, I know... even more words, but these seem to be universal useful).

Attester:

: An entity (typically a device), whose Evidence must be appraised in order to infer the extent to which the Attester is considered trustworthy, such as when deciding whether it is authorized to perform some operation

Claim:
: A piece of asserted information, often in the form of a name/value pair.
(Compare /claim/ in {{RFC7519}})

Endorsement:

> : Statements that Endorsers make (typically a manufacturer) that vouches for the design and implementation of the Attester. Often this includes statements about the integrity of an Attester's signing capability

Reviewer: I think this change is less correct than the original text.  The point about the "signing capability" typically refers to the Attesting Environment, and the endorsement vouches for that environment but not the target environment.   The new proposed text implies that it also vouches for target environments, which I think is not correct.  Recommend reverting.

Reviewer 2: After reading this more thoroughly again, I have to agree with Dave here, too.

Endorser:

: An entity (typically a manufacturer) whose Endorsements help Verifiers appraise the authenticity of Evidence

Evidence:

> : A set of information that asserts the trustworthiness status of an Attester, that is appraised by a Verifier

Reviewer: I believe the new text is less correct than the original.   For example, I would not say that a GPS claims is really about the "trustworthiness status" of an Attester, per se.   It's certainly information about an Attester though.  So I think Evidence can contain some info about the trustworthiness status, as well as additional claims that are not.  (E.g., a public key generated by the target environment that it wants to use for communication with a relying party).   As such, I prefer the original.

Relying Party:

: An entity, that depends on the validity of information about an Attester, for purposes of reliably applying application specific actions.  Compare /relying party/ in {{RFC4949}}

Relying Party Owner:

: An entity (typically an administrator), that is authorized to configure Appraisal Policy for Attestation Results in a Relying Party

Verifier:

> : An entity (typically a service), that appraises the validity of Evidence about an Attester

Reviewer: I'm not sure what "a service" means here.   When you have a Verifying Relying Party, is it a service?

Attestation Result:

> : The output generated by a Verifier, typically including information about an Attester, where the Verifier vouches for the validity of the Evidence it has appraised

Author: ```suggestion
: The output generated by a Verifier, typically including information about an Attester, where the Verifier vouches for the validity of the results
```

Attester:

: An entity (typically a device), whose Evidence must be appraised in order to infer the extent to which the Attester is considered trustworthy, such as when deciding whether it is authorized to perform some operation

Claim:
: A piece of asserted information, often in the form of a name/value pair.
(Compare /claim/ in {{RFC7519}})

Endorsement:

> : Statements that Endorsers make (typically a manufacturer) that vouches for the design and implementation of the Attester. Often this includes statements about the integrity of an Attester's signing capability

Author: ```suggestion
: A secure statement that some entity (typically a manufacturer) vouches for the integrity of an Attester's signing capability
```

Endorser:

: An entity (typically a manufacturer) whose Endorsements help Verifiers appraise the authenticity of Evidence

Evidence:

> : A set of information that asserts the trustworthiness status of an Attester, that is appraised by a Verifier

Author: ```suggestion
: A set of information about an Attester that is to be appraised by a Verifier
```

Relying Party:

: An entity, that depends on the validity of information about an Attester, for purposes of reliably applying application specific actions.  Compare /relying party/ in {{RFC4949}}

Relying Party Owner:

: An entity (typically an administrator), that is authorized to configure Appraisal Policy for Attestation Results in a Relying Party

Verifier:

> : An entity (typically a service), that appraises the validity of Evidence about an Attester

Author: ```suggestion
: An entity that appraises the validity of Evidence about an Attester
```

# Roles and Entities

> 

Reviewer: Just make sure we do not merge this PR with both versions (but you knew that).   Right now I think the "Henk version" reads better, and is shorter.

In essence, an entity that combines more than one role also creates and
consumes the corresponding conceptual messages as defined in this document.

# Role Hosting and Composition

NED VERSION

> The RATS architecture includes the definition of Roles (e.g. Attester, Verifier,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The RATS architecture includes the definition of roles (e.g., Attester, Verifier,
```

Relying Party, Endorser) and conceptual messages (e.g., Evidence, Attestation Results,
Endorsements, Appraisal Policies) that captures canonical attestation behaviors,
that are common to a broad range of attestation-enabled systems. An entity that

> combines multiple Roles produces and consumes the associated Role Messages.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
combines multiple roles produces and consumes the associated conceptual messages.
```

The RATS architecture is not prescriptive about deployment configuration options

> of attestation-enabled systems, therefore the various Roles can be hosted on any

Reviewer: ```suggestion
of attestation-enabled systems, therefore the various roles can be hosted on any
```

> participating entity. This implies, for a given entity, that multiple Roles could

Reviewer: ```suggestion
participating entity. This implies, for a given entity, that multiple roles could
```

be co-resident so that the duties of multiple roles could be performed simultaneously.

> Nevertheless, the semantics of which Role Messages are inputs and outputs to a Role

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Nevertheless, the semantics of which conceptual messages are inputs and outputs to a role
```

entity remains constant. As a result, the entity can participate as a constituent of the RATS architecture
while flexibly accommodating the needs of various deployment architectures.

> Interactions between Roles do not necessarily require use of Internet protocols.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Interactions between roles do not necessarily require use of Internet protocols.
```

They could, for example, use inter-process communication, local system buses,

> shared memory, hypervisors, IP-loopback devices or any communication path

Reviewer: re "IP-loopback devices"... if they use "IP" loopback devices, how do they not use "Internet protocols" as in line 670?

Reviewer 2: True

> between the various environments that may exist on the entity that combines multiple Roles.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
between the various environments that may exist on the entity that combines multiple roles.
```

> The movement of Role Messages between locally hosted Roles is referred to as

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The movement of conceptual messages between locally hosted roles is referred to as
```

"local conveyance". Most importantly, the definition of local conveyance methods is
out-of-scope for the RATS architecture.

> The following paragraph elaborates on an exemplary usage scenario:

Reviewer: The above sentence is odd, why refer to "the following paragraph" with a header?

Reviewer 2: Removing the colon would simplify this into a leading sentence?

In a Composite Device scenario, in addition to local entities that host the
lead Attester and other subordinate Attesters, the Composite Device can host the
Verifier role locally to appraise Evidence from one or more subordinate Attesters.

> The local Verifier might convey local Attestation Results to a remote Relying party

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The local Verifier might convey local Attestation Results to a remote Relying Party
```

or the Relying Party role also could become local where an application-specific
action is taken locally. For example, a secure boot scenario prevents system software
from loading if the firmware fails to satisfy a local trustworthiness appraisal policy.

In a multi-network scenario, a network node might bridge a wide-area
network, local-area network, and span various system buses. In so doing, the bridge node

> might need to host multiple Roles depending on the type of behavior each connected domain

Reviewer: ```suggestion
might need to host multiple roles depending on the type of behavior each connected domain
```
